doc/basicnotions/concept.rst, before:

.. _solver_concept:

The solver concept
===================

A solver class must obey a specific concept so that inputs don't depend on
which specific solver you are using. The solver class must contain the members
`G_tau` and `G0_iw` corresponding to the interacting and non-interacting Green's
function, and a member function `solve()` that uses `G0_iw` to compute `G_iw`.
Here's the concept explicitly:

.. class:: GenericSolver

  The generic concept of a solver class

  .. attribute:: G_tau

    The interacting Green's function. This is a :ref:`full Green's function
    <fullgreen>` with each block being a :ref:`GfImTime`. G is set after
    the solve() method has been called.

  .. attribute:: G0_iw

    The non-interacting Green's function. This is a :ref:`full Green's function
    <fullgreen>` with each block being a :ref:`GfImFreq`. G0_iw is needed
    by the solver and should be set before solve() is called.

  .. function:: solve()

    This function computes the interacting Green's function of the problem
    using G0_iw as an input. The solution is stored in G_iw.

Commit message:

[doc] A bunch of small improvements to the documentation.
[doc] Fixed formatting in the FAQ.
[doc] Removed sorted_spaces.rst, which should be upgraded to the lib (?)
[doc] Use context managers with HDF archives in Python examples.
[doc] Deprecation warning in basicnotions/concept.rst. Do we still need this file?
[doc] Fixing some .rst files...
[doc] Use a Sphinx inventory file from the local installation of the lib.
[doc] More rigorous notation in index.rst
[doc] Corrected links to BiBTeX files.
[doc] Iteration over settingparameters.rst
[doc] Prettier table of solve() parameters + small fixes.

doc/basicnotions/concept.rst, after:

.. _solver_concept:

The solver concept
===================

.. warning::
    This document is outdated and should be either removed or rewritten.

A solver class must obey a specific concept so that inputs don't depend on
which specific solver you are using. The solver class must contain the members
`G_tau` and `G0_iw` corresponding to the interacting and non-interacting Green's
function, and a member function `solve()` that uses `G0_iw` to compute `G_iw`.
Here's the concept explicitly:

.. class:: GenericSolver

  The generic concept of a solver class

  .. attribute:: G_tau

    The interacting Green's function. This is a :ref:`full Green's function
    <fullgreen>` with each block being a :ref:`GfImTime`. G is set after
    the solve() method has been called.

  .. attribute:: G0_iw

    The non-interacting Green's function. This is a :ref:`full Green's function
    <fullgreen>` with each block being a :ref:`GfImFreq`. G0_iw is needed
    by the solver and should be set before solve() is called.

  .. function:: solve()

    This function computes the interacting Green's function of the problem
    using G0_iw as an input. The solution is stored in G_iw.
