python/triqs_cthyb/parameters_constr_parameters_t.rst, before:

+----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parameter Name | Type                              | Default | Documentation                                                   |
+================+===================================+=========+=================================================================+
| beta           | double                            | --      | Inverse temperature                                             |
+----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| gf_struct      | triqs::hilbert_space::gf_struct_t | --      | block structure of the gf                                       |
+----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| n_iw           | int                               | 1025    | Number of Matsubara frequencies for gf<imfreq, matrix_valued>   |
+----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| n_tau          | int                               | 10001   | Number of tau points for gf<imtime, matrix_valued>              |
+----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
| n_l            | int                               | 50      | Number of Legendre polynomials for gf<legendre, matrix_valued>  |
+----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

Add parameter Delta_interface that allows to provide h_loc0 and Delta_tau instead of G0_iw
- update solver_core_desc.py
- add warning if diagonal Delta_tau terms have imaginary part before throwing it away
- enforce fundamental symmetries for Delta_tau

python/triqs_cthyb/parameters_constr_parameters_t.rst, after:

+-----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Parameter Name  | Type                              | Default | Documentation                                                                                  |
+=================+===================================+=========+================================================================================================+
| beta            | double                            | --      | Inverse temperature                                                                            |
+-----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| gf_struct       | triqs::hilbert_space::gf_struct_t | --      | block structure of the gf                                                                      |
+-----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| n_iw            | int                               | 1025    | Number of Matsubara frequencies for gf<imfreq, matrix_valued>                                  |
+-----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| n_tau           | int                               | 10001   | Number of tau points for gf<imtime, matrix_valued>                                             |
+-----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| n_l             | int                               | 50      | Number of Legendre polynomials for gf<legendre, matrix_valued>                                 |
+-----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Delta_interface | bool                              | false   | are Delta_tau and hloc_0 provided as input? if so they don't need to be calculated from G0_iw  |
+-----------------+-----------------------------------+---------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
